---
layout: post
title:  "Puzzle #2: Really Curious XSS in Rails"
author: "Egor Homakov (<a href='https://twitter.com/homakov'>@homakov</a>)"
public: false
---
I've seen this code quite a few times in app/views: `$.get(location.pathname+'?something')`. It reads current pathname and requests it with some parameters or loads some extra JSON data. Or adjusts search filters. Lots of use cases. 100% innocent code, isn't it?

No! location.pathname is considered harmful in Rails! Say, we have /customsearch endpoint.

1. Rails doesn't care about extra '/' in the path and strips it. That's why   https://host.com//customsearch works. Thanks Rails!

2. `//customsearch` is a path-relative URL and will turn this AJAX request into a cross domain request. Yes it was a bad idea to make `//` path relative directive. They should have created `rel://` path instead for this purpose, would fix a lot of security issues with redirects. Thanks web standards!

3. While buying 1st level "customsearch" domain is unfeasible there are tons of other cheap domains like `customsearch.space`, thanks to new affordable TLDs!

4. https://host.com//customsearch.space will also work because the ".space" part is recognized as params[:format] of the request. Thanks Rails!

5. Now when jQuery makes a cross domain request to our //customsearch.space we can simply return JS code with content type = text/javascript and <a href="https://github.com/jquery/jquery/issues/2432">it will be automatically executed by jQuery</a>. Thanks jQuery!

This is not a super common bug but I like how couple of Rails "features" turned an absolutely innocent line of code into XSS.
